your computer sure makes life easier but
can you say you pay it back the same way
it turns out seemingly insignificant
things like keeping the battery in or
forgetting to unplug your headphones can
slowly kill your electronic buddy
don't worry I'll fill you in on the most
common mistakes in PC care 14 connecting
the laptop to a power supply the wrong
way if you're like me you probably think
it doesn't really matter which end of
the charger gets plugged in first turns
out we're wrong never plug it into an
outlet first without connecting
something to the other end if you do
this the power supply can simply burn
out or worst case scenario you can kill
the motherboard always start with
connecting the laptop to the charger
then the plug to the outlet and only
then turn the laptop on thirteen
plugging into the power source without
removing the battery from the laptop if
you frequently use your laptop when it's
plugged in it's a good idea to take out
the battery after you charge it to about
50-60 percent if you leave it inside it
will become less productive over time
only reserving enough energy to run for
20 minutes now here comes the surprising
part it's best to keep that battery in
the fridge not the freezer but the
fridge to protect it wrap it in a
waterproof package this way it won't
oxidize and will retain all its
properties 12 being impatient as you
turn on or restart your PC after it's
shown you the welcome message your PC
still needs some time to fully turn on
in patience gives your computer too much
pressure it can't handle causing the
operating system to freeze and the
distortion of data if the computer still
works slowly after a few minutes check
the list of startup programs and sort
them
b11 using 80 and extension cable instead
of a power strap power surges or
unexpected power supply cuts can lead
not only to instant data loss but also
to the processor burning it's not just
the grid to blame for power surges
lightning can give you a hard time as it
sends its pulses through the cables and
even phone wires a buildup of static is
also a potential danger to protect
yourself and minimize all risks
you must use a power strip instead of
the usual tea or extension cord it will
let you turn off the power supply in
times of strong current drops for the
same reason
don't keep your PC constantly plugged in
10 putting your system unit too close to
the wall furniture and home decor if you
have an old-school computer you must be
facing the where do I put that stack
question it's pretty huge and many
people prefer to push it somewhere far
away where it can't be seen when you do
so you're forgetting the rule of free
access to ventilation the airflow often
gets blocked by a wall curtains or other
interior items remember your computer
needs an effective cooling system
otherwise you're at risk of overheating
and interrupting functionality make sure
that nothing prevents access to air and
the ventilation opening is not blocked 9
not paying enough attention to your
software for the operating system to run
smoothly for many years give it the
treatment it deserves keep track of what
you're installing avoid unnecessary
programs clean the registry often and
get rid of temporary files in various
duplicates if possible use only original
drivers that are fully compatible with
your computer regularly scan it for
viruses and get rid of suspicious files
8 transporting your laptop in sleep or
hibernation mode before you put your
laptop in its case to go somewhere make
sure that it's in shutdown mode sleep
and hibernation are only good when
you're using the gadget at home and
don't like to constantly wait for the
system to fully boot although it's worth
doing it from time to time sleep and
hibernation modes are not recommended
for transporting a laptop because
laptops don't handle active movement
while only movie characters can use them
on the back of a motorcycle while
running away from enemies in real life
it can lead to serious software damage
seven exposing the screen to direct
sunlight one thing that your laptop and
computer both have in common is that
they hate the Sun obviously it can cause
problems with overheating and it's race
can slowly but surely kill your display
so if you keep your gadgets close to the
window or in direct sunlight
be prepared to say goodbye to a bright
and saturated picture in the near future
six mangling the cords what do the
cables and power cords of your laptop
look like if they're all twisted and
bent or wrapped around something to keep
them bundled don't expect them to serve
you a very long time
you see sharp edges even on plastic
objects easily cut into the cords and
ruin them
vending does the same thing so the best
you can do is either bundle the cord
over itself or the power adapter and
make sure all cables are attached to the
motherboard and don't hang loose every
time you turn the computer off in all
five keeping your laptop to high heat is
your laptops worst enemy so keep your
gadget cool on a flat and firm surface
if the air vent is located in the lower
part of the laptop just a flat table
won't be enough for support
get yourself an additional cooling
system using a special stand with small
built-in fans this way you'll extend the
lifespan of your laptop and keep it
quiet for using a cheap replacement
power supply when your power supply
burns or gets lost don't go for a
cheaper version or borrow your friend's
old charger just to save money it's
really important that you use an
original power supply that's fully
suited to your laptop model if you
ignore this rule you'll give your
battery and even the motherboard a
really hard time three installing and
uninstalling lots of programs when you
install and uninstall tons of programs
they take up different spaces on
previously installed programs on your
desk this is called disk fragmentation
and it slows down the work of your
software you can use a disk Defragmenter
to solve this problem and if your disk
is full but you don't think you have too
many programs installed try using some
tools to delete rarely used in temporary
files - cleaning the screen the wrong
way
do you use some liquids to clean your
computer screen stop it right now
ammonia based alcohol containing
substances can seriously damage the
anti-reflective coating of your screen
and shorten its lifespan using wet wipes
cleaning agents and running water aren't
the best ideas either the best thing you
can do is to use microfiber or soft
fabrics if they don't do the trick
use special wipes for cleaning screens
choose them to pending on the type of
screen so you don't spoil the coating 1
keeping too many gadgets plugged in
whenever it's possible turn off the
sound keyboard backlight Bluetooth and
Wi-Fi if you can work offline it seems
like something insignificant that
actually helps your laptop battery
performance another thing that can help
is disconnecting the wireless mouse
flash drives headphones and external
hard drives all of them absorb energy
even when turned off do you know of any
other things that seem harmless but
actually damage your PC spread the word
in the comments below don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]